**Note:** You may also connect using [IPsec/L2TP mode](clients.md). No additional software is required.

1. Download and install the free <a href="https://www.shrew.net/download/vpn" target="_blank">Shrew Soft VPN client</a>.   
   **Note:** This VPN client supports Windows 2K/XP/Vista/7/8.
1. Click Start Menu -> All Programs -> ShrewSoft VPN Client -> VPN Access Manager
1. Click the **Add (+)** button on toolbar.
1. Enter `Your VPN Server IP` in the **Host Name or IP Address** field.
1. Click the **Authentication** tab. Select **Mutual PSK + XAuth** from the **Authentication Method** drop-down menu.
1. Under the **Local Identity** sub-tab, select **IP Address** from the **Identification Type** drop-down menu.
1. Click the **Credentials** sub-tab. Enter `Your VPN IPsec PSK` in the **Pre Shared Key** field.
1. Click the **Phase 1** tab. Select **main** from the **Exchange Type** drop-down menu.
1. Click the **Phase 2** tab. Select **sha1** from the **HMAC Algorithm** drop-down menu.
1. Click **Save** to save the VPN connection details.
1. Select the new VPN connection. Click the **Connect** button on toolbar.
1. Enter `Your VPN Username` in the **Username** field.
1. Enter `Your VPN Password` in the **Password** field.
1. Click **Connect**.

Once connected, you will see **tunnel enabled** in the VPN Connect status window. Click the "Network" tab, and confirm that **Established - 1** is displayed under "Security Associations". You can verify that your traffic is being routed properly by <a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=my+ip" target="_blank">looking up your IP address on Google</a>. It should say "Your public IP address is `Your VPN Server IP`".

If you get an error when trying to connect, see <a href="clients.md#troubleshooting" target="_blank">Troubleshooting</a>.
