1. Open System Preferences and go to the Network section.
1. Click the **+** button in the lower-left corner of the window.
1. Select **VPN** from the **Interface** drop-down menu.
1. Select **L2TP over IPSec** from the **VPN Type** drop-down menu.
1. Enter anything you like for the **Service Name**.
1. Click **Create**.
1. Enter `Your VPN Server IP` for the **Server Address**.
1. Enter `Your VPN Username` for the **Account Name**.
1. Click the **Authentication Settings** button.
1. In the **User Authentication** section, select the **Password** radio button and enter `Your VPN Password`.
1. In the **Machine Authentication** section, select the **Shared Secret** radio button and enter `Your VPN IPsec PSK`.
1. Click **OK**.
1. Check the **Show VPN status in menu bar** checkbox.
1. **(Important)** Click the **Advanced** button and make sure the **Send all traffic over VPN connection** checkbox is checked.
1. Click the **TCP/IP** tab, and make sure **Link-local only** is selected in the **Configure IPv6** section.
1. Click **OK** to close the Advanced settings, and then click **Apply** to save the VPN connection information.

To connect to the VPN: Use the menu bar icon, or go to the Network section of System Preferences, select the VPN and choose **Connect**. You can verify that your traffic is being routed properly by <a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=my+ip" target="_blank">looking up your IP address on Google</a>. It should say "Your public IP address is `Your VPN Server IP`".

If you get an error when trying to connect, see <a href="#troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</a>.
