## Advanced usage

### Use alternative DNS servers

Clients are set to use [Google Public DNS](https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/) when the VPN is active. If another DNS provider is preferred, define `VPN_DNS_SRV1` and optionally `VPN_DNS_SRV2` in your `env` file, then follow instructions above to re-create the Docker container. For example, if you wish to use [Cloudflare's DNS service](https://1.1.1.1):

```
VPN_DNS_SRV1=1.1.1.1
VPN_DNS_SRV2=1.0.0.1
```

### Use on Raspberry Pis

For use on Raspberry Pis (ARM architecture), you must first build this Docker image on your RPi using instructions from [Build from source code](#build-from-source-code), instead of pulling from Docker Hub. Then follow the other instructions in this document.

### Build from source code

Advanced users can download and compile the source code from GitHub:

```
git clone https://github.com/hwdsl2/docker-ipsec-vpn-server.git
cd docker-ipsec-vpn-server
docker build -t hwdsl2/ipsec-vpn-server .
```

Or use this if not modifying the source code:

```
docker build -t hwdsl2/ipsec-vpn-server github.com/hwdsl2/docker-ipsec-vpn-server.git
```

### Bash shell inside container

To start a Bash session in the running container:

```
docker exec -it ipsec-vpn-server env TERM=xterm bash -l
```

(Optional) Install the `nano` editor:

```
apt-get update && apt-get -y install nano
```

Then run your commands inside the container. When finished, exit the container and restart if needed:

```
exit
docker restart ipsec-vpn-server
```

### Bind mount the env file

As an alternative to the `--env-file` option, advanced users can bind mount the `env` file. The advantage of this method is that after updating the `env` file, you can restart the Docker container to take effect instead of re-creating it. To use this method, you must first edit your `env` file and use single quotes `''` to enclose the values of all variables. Then (re-)create the Docker container (replace the first `vpn.env` with your own `env` file):

```
docker run \
    --name ipsec-vpn-server \
    --restart=always \
    -p 500:500/udp \
    -p 4500:4500/udp \
    -v "$(pwd)/vpn.env:/opt/src/vpn.env:ro" \
    -v /lib/modules:/lib/modules:ro \
    -d --privileged \
    hwdsl2/ipsec-vpn-server
```

### Enable Libreswan logs

To keep the Docker image small, Libreswan (IPsec) logs are not enabled by default. If you are an advanced user and wish to enable it for troubleshooting purposes, first start a Bash session in the running container:

```
docker exec -it ipsec-vpn-server env TERM=xterm bash -l
```

Then run the following commands:

```
apt-get update && apt-get -y install rsyslog
service rsyslog restart
service ipsec restart
sed -i '/modprobe/a service rsyslog restart' /opt/src/run.sh
exit
```

When finished, you may check Libreswan logs with:

```
docker exec -it ipsec-vpn-server grep pluto /var/log/auth.log
```

To check xl2tpd logs, run `docker logs ipsec-vpn-server`.
